First open "Anaconda Prompt"

Type: conda env list

This will show environments available. If we have not created anything before, we will have the "base" environment.
Note: "*" indicates the active environment

To view the packages available in the environment type: conda list



--- Create an Environment ---

Let's assume we are creating an environment called "test_env"

Type: conda create --name test_env

Proceed ([y]/n)? y

This will create a new environment

We can verify this by typing: conda env list

Now, in addition to "base" environment we will see "test_env" in the list. However, this is not active yet (check the "*")



--- Activate an Environment ---

To activate the environment type: (base) C:\Users\my_name>conda activate test_env

Then: (test_env) C:\Users\my_name>

To view the packages type: conda list

There will be no packages as we just created this.



--- Install Packages in an Environment ---

Let's install some packages:

(test_env) C:\Users\my_name>conda install pandas

This will also install all the dependencies. Once agree it will install pandas with all the dependencies.

Note: We can also install multiple packages at once: conda install pandas jupyter notebook matplotlib

Now type: conda list

We can see that all the packages are there now.

Now the environment is ready and we can launch the jupyter notebook



--- Jupyter Notebook ---

Note: if it says jupyter notebook is not available, we can install it by typing "conda install jupyter notebook"

Note: When we are working on jupyter notebook and we want to install a new package ("spacy"), comeback to the Anaconda Prompt and open a new window.

You will in the base environment. We can change that by typing: conda activate test_env



--- Deactivate an Environment ---

To deactivate an environment: conda deactivate



--- Delete and Environment ---

To delete a environment: conda env remove --name test_env



--- Issues when Installing Packages ---

If you are running into any issues when installing package(s) in an environment, this may be due to some corrupted packages.

In this case, we can clean the cashe: conda clean --all



--- Issues When Installing Packages to a Existing Environment ---

When we are installing packages to a existing environment (contain some packages already), we might get some errors regarding incompatibility.
In that case we can install the packages using pip command: pip install transformers



--- Install Packages Not Available in Default Anaconda Channel ---

In some cases, needed packages are not available in the default anaconda channel.
Then we can install them using alternative channels.
For an example, let's assume we want to install 'vaderSentiment' package.
This is not available through default channel. It is available in the 'conda-forge' channel.
Then we can try the command: conda install -c conda-forge vaderSentiment.
This channel is maintained by the community.

To use the English models with spaCy, we need to install them first: python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm


